---
title: 'Getting Started With Coding'
date: '2022-11-06'
---

So you’ve decided that you want to learn how to code. First of all, the world of coding and programming is filled with opportunities to learn, build, meet people and in some way change your life. There are many different paths you can take on this journey and my goal is to help you navigate those twists and turns.

Your first step was probably opening up your favorite search engine and typing in something like “how to code” or “how can I teach myself to code?” You were most likely met with an onslaught of different articles and videos outlining many different topics that you NEED to learn. All this information can be very overwhelming. Loops, variables, “what does IDE stand for again”? This approach can cause you to look at different areas of coding which can be very confusing. It’s almost as if you started to learn guitar and kept switching up which genre you wanted to practice. While different types of music share some of the same basic principles there are also things that make each one unique. The same is true for different areas of coding. Figuring out your area of focus should be your first step.

## What kind of coding do you want to learn?

The great thing about coding is that there are many different paths you can choose to follow. The not so great thing is that deciding on that path can be tricky. You should start by asking yourself “what do I want to build?” Answering this question can help narrow down a few things, one being the first programming language you learn. If you're interested in cyber security and data science take a look at python. For web development, Javascript should be your main focus. If your dream has always been to make the next big video game c++ and c# will be your tools. While all of these areas may seem exciting, taking the time to really develop skills in one will help you solidify the basics of programming. I myself flip flopped between different technologies in the beginning. It wasn’t until a developer friend suggested I stick with one thing that my progress increased considerably. Now that you know your area of focus, how should you start the learning process?

## How should I learn?

There are three main ways most people learn to code: structured education usually through college, a coding bootcamp, or self teaching. A degree in computer science is the traditional way to learn to code, at least if your main goal is to get a higher paying job. Coding bootcamps are a relatively new way to get into coding. The name does a great job describing what a bootcamp will entail. It’s a concentrated course that aims to teach you the necessary skills to be proficient in coding and get a job. The self taught route is pretty self explanatory: learn by finding resources that work best for you. As someone who only took a few computer classes in college and never attended a bootcamp I’ll really only speak about self teaching which is where most of my knowledge comes from. My area of focus is web development, whether it’s a simple website or a complex fullstack application transforming a blank page into something I can share with others is always fun. Some of the best resources I found are free and have been used by many to not only learn to code but to land a job in tech. I first found [**Freecodecamp**](https://www.freecodecamp.org/) which is a great text based way to get your feet wet and start writing code. If you'd rather watch someone code and explain things as they go, some Youtube channels I recommend are Traversity Media, Web Dev Simplified and Coding Addict. Once you get the basics down make sure you solidify your knowledge by building something by yourself. Anyone can follow step by step instructions, it’s not until you make something from scratch you actually learn the concepts. One of the best resources I’ve found is a growing community called 100devs . A free community of amazing people (yes I said free) whose goal is to get people jobs in tech. With videos streamed live on Twitch and an incredible Discord it’s a resource I always recommend.

## Final Thoughts

Coding is not something that comes easy to everyone so be easy on yourself when you first start learning. This stuff is pretty hard! There will be days when things just click and others where you have no idea why the code isn’t working. Be patient, this journey is a marathon not a sprint.
